---
title: "on running and consistency"
date: "2024-08-31"
---

I have been reading this book about running from Murakami. I fell in love with the book and his storytelling, I'm sure going to order more from the same author. At times I paused and appreciated the choices of words and the phrases. They're just so well crafted that it just keeps you reading for long hours.

This happens to be perfect time for me to read this book. As I've been working on myself rigorously for the past few months and trying to be fit, I love this book even more. The book is a collection of his thoughts on running and what it means to him and after consistently doing this for decades, how it shaped his life.

- It gave me a taste of what long-term commitment looks like.
- Pondering on this kept me thinking about how simply we commit to things without knowing how long are we gonna stick to it. I can imagine myself going to gym for decades and I want to make sure my future self knows what it means to me.
- How important is your physical health and its well-being when you're chasing something or putting your whole life?

### Quotes

- Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional
- I run to acquire a void.
- I’m struck by how, except when you’re young, you need to prioritize in life, figuring out in what order you should divide up your time and energy. If you don’t get that sort of system set by a certain age, you’ll lack focus and your life will be out of balance.
- When I tell people I run every day, some are quite impressed. “You really must have a strong will,” they sometimes tell me. To tell the truth, I don’t even think there’s that much correlation between my running every day and whether or not I have a strong will. I think I’ve been able to run for more than twenty years for a simple reason: It suits me. Or at least because I don’t find it all that painful. Like my three meals a day—along with sleeping, housework, and work—running was incorporated into my daily routine.
- Rereading the article I wrote at the time of this run in Greece, I’ve discovered that after twenty-some years, and as many marathons later, the feelings I have when I run twenty-six miles are the same as back then.
- The three most important qualities a novelist should have - talent, focus and endurance.
- Fortunately, these two disciplines—focus and endurance—are different from talent, since they can be acquired and sharpened through training. You’ll naturally learn both concentration and endurance when you sit down every day at your desk and train yourself to focus on one point. This is a lot like the training of muscles I wrote of a moment ago. You have to continually transmit the object of your focus to your entire body, and make sure it thoroughly assimilates the information necessary for you to write every single day and concentrate on the work at hand. And gradually you’ll expand the limits of what you’re able to do. Almost imperceptibly you’ll make the bar rise. This involves the same process as jogging every day to strengthen your muscles and develop a runner’s physique. Add a stimulus and keep it up. And repeat. Patience is a must in this process, but I guarantee the results will come.
- Muscles are like work animals that are quick on the uptake. If you carefully increase the load, step by step, they learn to take it. As long as you explain your expectations to them by actually showing them examples of the amount of work they have to endure, your muscles will comply and gradually get stronger. It doesn’t happen overnight, of course. But as long as you take your time and do it in stages, they won’t complain—aside from the occasional long face—and they’ll very patiently and obediently grow stronger. Through repetition you input into your muscles the message that this is how much work they have to perform. Our muscles are very conscientious. As long as we observe the correct procedure, they won’t complain. If, however, the load halts for a few days, the muscles automatically assume they don’t have to work that hard anymore, and they lower their limits. Muscles really are like animals, and they want to take it as easy as possible; if pressure isn’t applied to them, they relax and cancel out the memory of all that work. Input this canceled memory once again, and you have to repeat the whole journey from the very beginning.
- Most of what I know about writing I’ve learned through running every day. These are practical, physical lessons. How much can I push myself? How much rest is appropriate—and how much is too much? How far can I take something and still keep it decent and consistent? When does it become narrow-minded and inflexible? How much should I be aware of the world outside, and how much should I focus on my inner world? To what extent should I be confident in my abilities, and when should I start doubting myself?
- One time she had on an elegant sari, another time an oversized sweatshirt with a university’s name on it. If memory serves, I’ve never seen her wearing the same outfit twice. Waiting to see what clothes she has on is one of the small pleasures of each early-morning run.
- But, frankly, if I want to write a large-scale work, increasing my strength and stamina is a must, and I believe this is something worth doing, or at least that doing it is much better than not. This is a trite observation, but as they say: If something’s worth doing, it’s worth giving it your best—or in some cases beyond your best. To deal with something unhealthy, a person needs to be as healthy as possible. That’s my motto.
